# Rust Module System

- Rust has a number of features that allow us to manage our code’s organization, includes about which details are exposed, which details are private, and what names are in each scope in your programs.
- These features, sometimes collectively referred to as the module system.
- The Rust module system includes:
  - **_Packages_**: A Cargo feature that lets you build, test, and share crates.
  - **_Crates_**: Each crate can be a tree of modules that produces a library or executable.
  - **_Modules and use_**: Let you control the organization, scope, and privacy of paths.
  - **_Paths_**: A way of naming an item, such as a struct, function, or module.


## Crates
- The smallest amount of code that the Rust compiler considers at a time is a Crate.
- Rust compiler considers each file as Crate.
- A crate can be of 2 forms
    1. Binary crate
    2. Library crate

### Binary crate
- Binary crates are the programs that can be compiled to an executable which we can run. This can be command line program or a server.
- Each binary crate should have a main function that specifies what need to be done when it the executable runs.
- Cargo follows a convention that src/main.rs is the crate root of a binary crate with the same name as the package.

### Library crate
- Library crates doesnot have a main function, they cannot be compiled to an executable.
- These define the functionality that can be shared across multiple projects.
- For example, `rand` crate provides the functionality that generates random numbers. Most of the time when the rust programmers say crates, it is a library crate* and they interchangeably call as library.
- The crate root is the source file that Rust compiler starts from.
- Cargo follows a convention that src/lib.rs is the crate root of a library crate with the same name as the package.
- Cargo passes the crate root files to rustc to build the library or binary.

## Packages
- A package can contain one or more crates that provide certain functionality.
- A package can be generated by using `cargo new package_name`.
- Each package contains a `Cargo.toml` file which contains the package name, dependencies, crates and other info about the package and this descibes how to build those crates.
- A package can contain as many binary crates as you like, but only one library crate.
- A package must contain atleast one library crate or one binary crate.
- A package can have multiple binary crates by placing files in the src/bin directory where each file will be a separate binary crate.

